Contact
mtmitchel@gmail.com
                                 Mason Mitchel
                                 UX Copywriting | Content Design | Generative AI
www.linkedin.com/in/mtmitchel    Berlin, Berlin, Germany
(LinkedIn)
mtmitchel.journoportfolio.com/
(Portfolio)                      Summary
                                 Experienced communications and content specialist with a proven
Top Skills
                                 track record of helping global brands establish presence through
Writing
                                 storytelling, digital marketing, and well-crafted content.
Digital Media
Content

                                 Experience
Languages
German (Limited Working)         DeepL
English (Native or Bilingual)    2 years 11 months

                                 Content Designer
                                 October 2023 - September 2025 (2 years)
                                 Berlin, Germany

                                 DeepL is a global Language AI platform helping businesses and individuals
                                 translate, write, and communicate across languages with greater accuracy,
                                 speed, and clarity.


                                 -Drafted UX and product copy across DeepL Translator, DeepL Write, DeepL
                                 Voice, desktop and mobile apps, Microsoft 365 and Google Workspace
                                 integrations, and web product surfaces.
                                 -Shaped free-to-paid conversion flows, writing upgrade prompts, value
                                 messaging, and checkout and sign-up copy—supporting a 12% lift in paid
                                 conversion and a seven-figure ARR uplift.
                                 -Developed copy for desktop store listings, download pages, and promotion
                                 surfaces—tied to 6M+ desktop downloads, 25% growth in active users, and
                                 10% more feature engagement.
                                 -Designed copy for SSO setup, role-based permissions, audit logs, and billing/
                                 admin separation—clarifying IAM and account management for enterprise
                                 admins.
                                 -Refined UX copy across navigation, integration pages, CTAs, and entry points
                                 for clarity, terminology consistency, and brand alignment—partnering with
                                 product, design, localization, monetization, and engineering.

                                 Marketing Copywriter
                                 November 2022 - October 2023 (1 year)
                                 Berlin, Germany
                                                                    Page 1 of 4
-Owned B2B marketing copy for DeepL's Go Enterprise initiative across 25+
landing pages—supporting 15% more organic traffic, 30% higher conversion
rates, and approaching €1M in additional revenue.
-Reworked DeepL's flagship Enterprise page, supporting a 20% lift in B2B
engagement and 15% more sales inquiries.
-Authored The state of translation and localization in 2023–2024, a flagship
report behind a six-figure lead generation pipeline.
-Wrote marketing copy across email campaigns, press releases, blog
posts, case studies, and sales decks, partnering with CRM, PR, and sales
enablement teams.


Localyze
SEO & Inbound Content Lead
September 2021 - September 2022 (1 year 1 month)
Berlin, Germany

Localyze’s global mobility platform makes it easy for companies to hire and
relocate talent across the world. A trusted tech partner of people teams across
Europe, Localyze streamlines international relocations, work permit and visa
processes, foreign business trips and more.


- Developed and executed paid & organic content strategies to increase brand
awareness and secure MQLs across multiple EU markets.
- Implemented SEO best practices and monitored site health through regular
technical audits.
- Worked closely with sales to create country-specific and product-focused
enablement material.


SmartRecruiters
Content Marketing Manager
September 2019 - December 2020 (1 year 4 months)
Berlin, Germany

SmartRecruiters' Talent Acquisition Suite allows teams to attract, select, and
hire the best talent. Over 4,000 companies worldwide rely on SmartRecruiters
to achieve hiring success—including brands like Bosch, LinkedIn, Skechers,
and Visa.


-Developed and executed content strategy that increased monthly organic
traffic to SmartRecruiters' blog by +200% over a 15-month period and secured
several first-page Google rankings for strategic keywords.



                                   Page 2 of 4
-Partnered with revenue team to create content for demand generation
campaigns that resulted in acquisition of 200+ new enterprise accounts, 85%
YoY net bookings growth, and 93% gross retention.
-Scaled content operations by managing roster of contributing writers which
included freelancers, SmartRecruiters’ customers, strategic partners, and
internal stakeholders.


Airy
Communications and Content Marketing Manager
January 2019 - August 2019 (8 months)
Berlin Area, Germany

Airy provides businesses with messaging-powered marketing and
communications tools that are cost-effective, frictionless, and user-friendly.


-Built multi-channel content strategy from ground up.
-Created B2C Messaging industry's first comprehensive product buyer's
guide under the advisory of board member Bill Macaitis (Slack, Zendesk,
Salesforce).
-Collaborated with sales team to craft customized content in support of
initiatives aimed at vertical market expansion.


Joblift
PR & Content Marketing Manager US
May 2018 - December 2018 (8 months)
Berlin Area, Germany

Joblift is a job platform that applies the latest machine learning techniques and
big data-based algorithms to create the optimal match between employer and
applicant.


-Worked with managing director of US market to implement PR and content
strategy in support of business plan that helped grow company from zero to
multi-million dollar run rate within two years.
-Identified US labor market trends using proprietary company data and used
findings to write and distribute press releases to journalists and media outlets.
-Coordinated with performance marketing team to write copy for high-volume
customer acquisition campaigns that helped deliver more than 100% YoY
revenue growth and 250% YoY ROAS growth.


Kitchen Stories -- AJNS New Media GmbH
Food Editor
January 2015 - November 2016 (1 year 11 months)
                                     Page 3 of 4
Berlin Area, Germany

Kitchen Stories is a cooking platform that offers inspiring videos and photo
instructions for recipes that anyone can cook!


-Created array of multimedia content for iOS and Android app that has been
downloaded over 22 million times globally and won the following awards:
Google Play Store Best of 2015, Apple App Store Best of 2015, Google
Material Design Award 2016, Google Play Store Best of 2016.
-Developed and executed Kitchen Stories’ most lucrative affiliate marketing
campaign of 2016 in cooperation with Villeroy & Boch.
-Managed a team of interns and coordinated network of freelance writers in the
USA, Germany, and China.


Columbia University in the City of New York
Bibliographic Assistant
May 2012 - September 2013 (1 year 5 months)
-Executed preliminary cataloguing
-Created and edited index for European- and English-language art and
architectural publication
-Assessed condition of materials prior to binding; assisted librarians,
undergraduate, and graduate students with basic research.




Education
City University of New York-Brooklyn College
Bachelor’s Degree, English Language and Literature, General · (2012)


Freie Universität Berlin
English Studies: Literature, Language, Theory · (2013 - 2015)


StartSteps
Compass Course · (2021)




                                    Page 4 of 4
